Hamas is an Arabic acronym for the
Islamic resistance movement its roots
lie in a network of Charity groups
formed years after the 1967 war when
Israel illegally occupied West Bank East
Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip the
movement was formerly founded in Gaza in
1987 by shik Ahmed Yin and his Aid Abdul
aiz alantis that was during the first
intifa or the Palestinian Uprising both
leaders were assassinated by Israel
years later in 1988 Hamas leader Mahmud
zahar sent a proposal to Israel's then
defense minister Yak Rabin to withdraw
Israeli forces from the occupied
territories release prisoners and
restore Palestinian rights but that was
rejected 2 months later Hamas adopted
its Charter declaring that the
liberation of Palestine is the religious
duty of every Muslim it also established
Hamas as an Islamic resistance movement
against what it called Zionist
occupation
in 1993 Israeli and Palestinian leaders
signed their first direct agreement to
hold peace talks aimed at reaching a
two-state solution Hamas opposed them
saying they betrayed the rights of
Palestinian refugees in 2005 Hamas
entered politics and the following year
under the leadership of isal Han won
parliamentary elections beating its
rival the ruling fat Movement by a wide
margin but fat was accused of hindering
a peaceful transfer of power in 2007
Hamas ceased control of the gaza's strip
from fata after heavy fighting Israel
responded by imposing a Land Air and sea
blockade that continues to this day in
2008 and 2017 Hamas leaders suggested
either a truce or peace formula in
exchange for an independent Palestinian
State along its pre-1967 borders with
Jerusalem as its capital and the right
to return of refugees Israel rejected
them in 17 Hamas presented a new
political document that reframed the
resistance movement as not being a
religious one it called Palestine the
land of the Arab Palestinian people it
indirectly recognized the state of
Israel and accepted a Palestinian State
along its pre-1967 borders and Israel's
illegal occupation which continues to
this
day